Let's look at a couple of ways of making
long strings that won't fit on one line in
the editor.
In both of these cases you
have a string on each line,
that can be two or more lines.
In this first method you tie
them together by putting a plus
sign at the end of a line and a back
slash to connect it to the next line.
In the second method you put
a parentheses at the beginning and
an end parentheses at
the end to tie them together.
In both cases you wind
up with one long string.
Sometimes you need a list of numbers.
We're going to import
the Python library random and
use it to generate a list
of random numbers.
Call the function makeRandom and
it generates ten random numbers.
Just take a look at that function.
First of all, we're following
our usual basic loop pattern.
We're going to create
a list here that's empty.
We're going to step
through a loop ten times.
We're going to generate a random
number between 1 and 100,
a random integer, and
we're going to append it to that list.
And then afterwards,
we're going to return this list.
Now, normally we've been printing these
out but returning this has the effect of
assigning a value to makeRandom that can
be used by other functions and programs.
As you can see,
it works virtually the same as printing
it out from the iPython window.
Now what I want to do is show
how we make use of this.
So we're going to have a function
called call_make_random.
It will call this function and
it will, this is the call right here,
it will make the random number which is
returned and assigned to this variable.
And then we're going to
print that variable.
Call_make_random, and
it prints out the list of
random numbers is this.
So you see, our function returned
a value and that value was a set,
set equal to this variable and
then we printed this variable out.
Sometimes we don't want a different
set of random numbers each time.
We want to generate the same
numbers over and over again.
This is particularly useful when
you're debugging a program.
You don't want to be surprised by
a different set of numbers and
have your program work differently.
We can do this by setting a random
seed to some particular number,
and then it will generate the same
random numbers every time.
Here's a function called make_same_random
that will set the seed to 17.
We run it again.
We get the same numbers.
Now, we have a function named
call_make_random that will call
the random function and
get a set of integers, print them, and
then it'll call the function again and get
another set of integers and print that.
And you'll see that they're
the same ones every time.
I want you to write a function that
will generate random real numbers.
You'll use random.random which returns
a random number between zero and
one instead of rand_int
which returns an integer.
Here is what mine looks like.
make_random_real runs and
it generates a list of
ten random real numbers.
Now let me show you my solution.
We'll create an empty list,
then we go through a loop ten times,
we generate a random number between zero
and one and we append it to the list, and
then we return that value.
Now I want you to modify your
solution to use a random seed.
Use 17 as your random seed.
In my solution I did this and I ran
it twice, and I get the same numbers.
Here is that solution.
The only real difference is
having this random seed there.
Now, let's look at sorting lists.
Here's a number list
that we can work with.
And what we've done is we've printed
the number list, there it is,
and we sorted the number list and
then we printed it again.
As you can see, the number list is
permantly changed and is now in order.
Let me restore this number list.
In the past, we had this function sorted.
It was a sorted list but
it's not permanent.
It printed it out in order all right,
but nonetheless,
it's still in the original order.
Now let's create a list of letters.
Make out the list produces
a list of letters.
Let's look at how that works.
We import the random function.
Here are the complete list
of English alphabet letters.
We set a random seed so
that it always comes out to be the same.
Then we have a basic loop.
We set alpha list equal to a blank list,
and
then we step through
this loop ten times and
we choose a random letter
out of the alphabet and
then append it onto that alpha list.
And then we return that alpha list.
Now I want to have a list that's
equal to that alpha list,
and so I'm going to execute this.
This says run alpha list and return
the value and set it equal to alpha list.
You can see I just did that.
This is the same thing.
I just wanted to show you
how to generate a random
list of any arbitrary size of letters.
Now let's sort them.
This prints the alpha list.
Then this sorts the alpha list.
And then this prints the alpha list again.
And you can see that it got sorted.
Now here's an alpha list that has
a mixture of upper and lower case letters.
If we try the same thing with it,
look what happens.
Here is the list unchanged,
then it sorted and
then it printed out sorted.
But all of the capital letters
precede all the lowercase letters.
Here's a capital D for
example which precedes a lowercase b.
That's not what we
typically want to happen,
but we can change the sort
function very slightly and
we can tell it to use as its key
the string changed to lowercase.
Let's start the list all over again,
and now, let's sort that.
Here's the list as we originally had it.
And here's the sorted list right here.
And notice that the sorted list has a,
b, d, d, e.
It's in alphabetical order
regardless of capitalization.
Let's create a list of strings.
Sort that.
Worked out just fine but
everything's lowercase.
Let's have the same string as
a mixture of upper and lower case.
Now when we sort it,
all the words with capital letters
precede the ones with lowercase letters.
Let's restore the list.
Now we can use key equals
string lower which changes
all the characters to
lowercase before it sorts.
And this is what we get.
This is more like what we expect.
Here's the original and
here's the sorted one.
The sorted one is in alphabetical order
regardless of the case of the letter.